Good morning and welcome
to the chaos here.
As you can see,
we've been frantically working to put
all of these demos together for you.
This session is something that
Steve Llewellyn and I had talked about
sort of as a showcase to all of you
folks that are doing Java development
as to what tools are available both from
Apple's side and from third party's side.
And we wanted to put this together.
I'll give you an agenda with who
we're going to talk about today.
We've got obviously Project Builder.
We'll have Dave Ewing from the
Project Builder team up here
to demonstrate Project Builder.
I'm not going to talk too much,
just a little bit here this morning.
We've actually got Scott Adler from our
Java team at Apple who will be demoing
on behalf of VMGear with a product,
Optimizeit.
We'll have Blake Stone.
I'm sure some of you have already seen
him in some of the earlier sessions.
Demonstrating JBuilder.
And then we'll have some new things that
I don't think have been seen anywhere,
hopefully, from install,
well actually from ZeroG,
two products from them.
And then lastly,
we'll have MetroWorks showing
the latest advances with Java and
their Code Warrior product.
So with trying to put together
all of those demonstrations
and all the various machines,
we'll pray that the demo
gods are with us today.
And everything goes off without a hitch.
So with that, I'm going to go ahead and
bring... Dave Ewing up to
give you guys a demonstration.
We're just going to have him walk
through Project Builder and show you
some of the great features that are
Java specific with Project Builder.
Thanks, Alan.
Thank you for the demos.
So I was going to take a long time
here knowing that I was first and
didn't have to worry about time,
but we've already started late,
so I guess I've got to get going.
There we go.
So you guys have all seen
Project Builder here.
You're going to see it more
in lots of other sessions,
I'm sure.
So the thing to note is that
Project Builder does a lot of stuff.
Java is just one of them.
I don't need to go
through all this stuff.
That slide is actually similar to
slides in lots of other sessions,
too.
So why would you use
Project Builder to do Java?
Well, for one thing,
it's a full Java integrated
development environment.
Java is a full class
citizen in Project Builder.
And another reason is
that Project Builder,
from the beginning,
has supported all of the
Mac OS X platform initiatives.
If you're building an
application on Mac OS X,
even if it's a Java application,
you can do it the right way
and build it as a bundle.
Another thing you might use
Java in Project Builder 4
is to do Cocoa development.
Cocoa, most of the time people think
of Objective-C with Cocoa,
but actually Java is a
very good way to do Cocoa.
With that, you can use Interface
Builder to build your UI,
even for Java, not just for Objective-C.
Of course,
Interface Builder supports Cocoa,
not Swing,
so that's something to remember.
I know a lot of people
get confused by that.
The final thing I'll mention
here is that if you have other
source out there that's not Java,
a bunch of C Source or C++,
and you need to get to that too,
you can use the Java native
interface to get to it.
and develop all that code in
the same project together.
And with that,
I'm actually going to demo just that,
a JNI project here.
Okay,
so I have this little demo project here.
It's actually very simple.
It just has one C source
file and one Java file.
And if we look at the C source code,
it does some heavy duty math here.
It adds two numbers.
Okay, it's a demo, right?
And if we go ahead and then,
this will be built into
a JNI library of course.
Go ahead and look at
the Java source file.
Wow, copyright Apple 2000,
it's an old demo.
In the main class here, CalcEngine,
it does a system load
library on that JNI library.
No big surprise if you do JNI.
And at the very bottom,
there's a main routine that, guess what,
calls the native class.
So, it calls the native function there.
Okay,
well let's take a little look at how the
targets are actually set up for this.
We have one main target
here that builds everything,
and underneath that it has some
dependencies set up to the other targets.
The first one generates or
compiles the Java sources,
and then there's a JNI library
that has to get built of course.
And I actually have a third target
here that generates Javadoc.
Now Project Builder doesn't actually
have integrated Java doc support in it,
but it's actually pretty easy to do that.
So we just have a shell script build
phase in this particular target
that calls out to do the Java doc.
Not the prettiest, but you know what?
You can do it.
And that's testament to the
flexibility of Project Builder.
Okay, well let's go and look at
the Java sources target.
This one's somewhat interesting.
I mean, it builds the Java source file.
That's no big deal.
The one thing it does do at the end is
it also has a shell script build phase,
and this one calls out to Java H.
Now, it's not really necessary to use
Java H when you do JNI libraries,
but it's a good idea because it
allows you to keep your Java source
code and your C source code in sync.
So, that little C example that had,
it actually had add and multiply.
It had a few routines in it.
It just doesn't know how to just add.
You know, if you got out of sync,
that file really does include
the .h file that's used,
that's generated here by Java H.
Okay, and then the final target I want
to show you is actually the
building of the JNI library.
Not much here in the build phases.
All it does is compile
that C source file.
No big deal.
If we look at the settings,
we see that it creates a file
called lib calcengine.jnilib.
That's what a JNI library
looks like on Mac OS X.
The final interesting
thing in this panel here,
down at the bottom,
When you're building a JNI library,
you want to set the
library style to bundle.
And then the other tab, just to show you.
When we run this little demo here,
what we actually run is Java,
the executable up here.
[Transcript missing]
Another thing to look at here is you
can actually choose which debugger
you want to use in Project Builder.
So you can actually use
GDB to debug the native code,
and that's using GDB underneath in here,
so you debug with the
GUI in Project Builder.
Or you can use the Java debugger.
And we're going to use the Java debugger,
so I'm just going to do a quick...
I've already built this project,
so...
At least I hope it's built.
It was yesterday.
Okay, so we stop here in the debugger.
Standard pane to look at the
variables for the local routine.
This particular stack's
not very interesting,
just the main routine is on it.
We have a pop-up here to
switch between threads.
And we can go to another thread,
the reference handler.
And... Oop, it's taking its time.
I should have been patient.
I selected on something else.
So anyhow,
you can drill down into variables.
Pretty standard stuff.
Well, let's go ahead and continue
to that other breakpoint.
You can see in the console view up above,
or perhaps you can see that it
printed out that first print line.
And we stopped at the second one
that says the result is result.
And you can look in the variable pane.
And in fact,
you can change that result if you want.
Okay, so we now have a new result.
We can step and see that it
printed out the new value.
It's a good thing we
used JNI for this demo.
Got the wrong answer, didn't it?
And you know what?
That's about it.
That's all I need to show here.
I think you're going to see
Project Builder in a lot of other places,
so let's save a little time and
get on with the other folks.
So we'll go ahead and
invite Scott Adler up.
Scott's going to talk a
little bit about VMGear.
Thanks a lot.
It's actually really fun for me
to be up here to show Optimizeit.
The people from VMGear couldn't
be here and they came by.
We've been working with them
to get all the profiling
information into our new VM.
And they came to Apple and worked with us
a little bit on getting up their product.
And it's really fun because I've been
doing Java programming for about five
years and this tool is really useful.
I don't know,
are there people in the audience
who have used this tool?
A couple?
Okay, great.
So it's an excellent tool for taking
your Java application and just figuring
out what's going on under the covers.
So here's a little overview
of what Optimizeit does.
It's a good profiling solution.
You can also fix all of
your performance issues.
Now, not all of them,
but you'll be able to find the hotspots
and determine what's really going on.
So let's go to a little bit of what
common Java performance problems are.
Now, there sort of are two different
main areas of Java problems.
One is memory allocation
that might take a while.
This has gotten a lot better in hotspot,
so sometimes it's really good
to run through an optimizer to
see what's actually happening,
how well hotspot's taking
care of this for you.
But there are things like the
cost of your garbage collections,
whether you're allocating
things in a tight loop.
Sometimes hotspot takes care
of that really well for you.
Sometimes there are other
things that are going on.
So garbage collections
really are the big thing.
If you're somehow allocating a whole
lot and you're hitting the top of
your memory limit and the garbage
collector is kicking in and you've
got a multi-threaded application,
it's going to stop all your
threads because it has to go parse
all these trees of relationships
and then as soon as it's done,
all your threads will be let go again.
So you don't want to be garbage
collecting a lot during your running
if you have a UI going or something.
The other thing is memory leaks.
One of the promises of garbage collection
is that you don't have memory leaks.
The problem is we still make mistakes.
We still do things like write a
program where we have things that
are listening to other objects
so they're linked together and
they end up in this complex chain.
And you do things like add
action listener and you forget
to remove action listener.
Well,
that's just as bad as not calling delete.
So you want to find your references.
You want to make sure that
you're disconnecting things.
you're disconnecting things
correctly when you delete objects.
And then the other big thing is
unsuspected performance bottlenecks.
And that's actually huge because you
don't want to sit down and necessarily
architect your code for ultimate
performance when you don't know
what your performance issues are.
Obviously,
you know some big things but you
don't want to go and write this great
tight algorithm that really isn't
your bottleneck and spend like three
months on that and then realize,
well, actually it's your
drawing code that's bad.
So that's really useful.
So you get to code, you know, code clean,
code all your objects really well and
then find out what your hotspots are
and then go jump into them and send
your performance engineers after that.
So I'll run through a quick demo.
So what I have running here on number,
guest one,
and others.
you instantiate their classes which
then instantiate your classes.
So they put a couple of
hooks underneath you.
And then what you,
that's one way to start it.
And then what you can do is you
can connect to that remotely.
So what I have is I have this really,
my CAN demo, this is a little bit of
swing set I took in here,
and just put some members of the
team and I put some sorting on
here so we can just play with a
little bit of performance settings.
Now this I ran just by calling
the optimize it classes and
then launching my class.
So now that this is up and running,
I can go to optimize it,
which I already started up just
so I can be a little quicker.
And here's optimize it's settings.
And this comes up when
you start up optimize it.
You've got all these different settings.
I'm not sure if you can
read these that well,
but there's application, applet, servlet,
and remote application.
So I'm doing the remote application.
Because it's pretty cool.
It lets you start up your application
separately from optimize it.
And it lets you then connect to it.
So right here I've got host name,
which says local host.
This could be two machine profiling.
So if I didn't want optimize it
to interfere with the profiling
performance on the other machine,
I can set up another machine and
just connect to it over the net.
So I also have here the source
path set up to my source,
and you'll see a little
more about that later.
So if I just attach to this program,
now optimize it will come up.
. . . . And what it first does
is it connects to the program.
And let's get rid of my filter here.
And it shows us the -- right
here is what mode you're in.
And it shows us that we're in
memory allocation profiler mode.
And we see all of the objects
that have been allocated.
And this is since it's booted up.
So since this application started.
So we can see we have
a ton of char arrays,
strings, objects, and all this stuff.
And this can be a little useful,
but you tend to be able to do this.
You tend to be overwhelmed by this.
So you might want to jump down
into things that are in your code.
So I know that I have a
class called sort something.
Or wait, maybe it's not sort.
It's called like table something.
So here are all my table demo classes.
Now, if you know in this,
this has all my interclasses also,
which is kind of cool.
They're anonymous interclasses,
so they get these numbers if
you know about how this works.
So I see that I have two table demos,
and I might want to say, you know,
what's going on?
Why are these around?
Where were they allocated?
So I can just double-click on these,
and I can see that I had two table demos,
and this is really useful
if you have hundreds,
thousands of things,
but it's showing me an allocation
pathway to each object.
So I can go here and say, okay,
I've got two instances.
One of them was instantiated here,
and I see, oh,
this was done in SwingSet 2
preload first demo.
And if I want to see, you know,
what's actually going on there,
I just double-click here,
and this brings up the
Optimizeit source code viewer,
and I can see, oh, here's where it was.
It just made a new table demo.
And if I want to see
the other one and see,
you know, why are these created
in different places?
I can look down here and see
that I've actually got...
[Transcript missing]
It's now creating a
whole new test window,
and we should see a whole
bunch of instances show up.
And what's interesting about this is that
now I can look at just the things that
have happened since I did that action,
and I know I only did that one thing.
And then I can, right here,
is the garbage collector,
and the garbage collector isn't
running very often because
we don't really need to.
So I can click here and
run the garbage collector,
and it should clean up
a whole bunch of things.
Not all of them because, obviously, name,
color, there are a whole bunch in there.
If we look down here, table demo,
we should have, we got two more of them.
I'm not sure exactly why,
so we could go try to find
out where they came from.
and we can see that
we've got four of them.
Now,
I may only want to look at some others,
so I go back here and...
So I want to see just the
allocations since I put my mark in.
So I say show allocations and
I see that I had two allocations
and that might be confusing to me.
Why did I have two?
I only pressed new menu once.
So I can go through here and see that
I had an action performed swing set
two and that was through my menu item.
And I also see that I'm
loading a load demo.
So that to me says that I've
got some error in my code.
I'm loading this twice for some
reason when I have one menu item.
So I can go track it down and fix it.
The other interesting thing is if
you are trying to find why things
are sitting around in memory,
you can go here to your
and others.
Please join me in welcoming
the next speakers.
Alan Samuel, Dave Ewing, Scott Adler,
Blake Stone, Eric Shapiro,
Serge Beauchamp,
Ravindranath Kurupati and others.
Please join me in welcoming
the next speakers.
to see like when you run
the garbage collector,
you should see garbage collector
activity crank up and then back down.
Right here are some threads,
whether they're active.
If I actually go to my
demo and tell it to sort,
you should see I've
threaded this little demo.
So, you've got a thread right here
that appears and disappears.
These are the current number
of threads they actually have
and usually there's just one,
your event,
the guys waiting for your events.
Then you can also look at
loading classes and see,
you can see what classes,
how many classes are loaded.
So, if you have a dynamic
loading application,
you should see that you don't load
everything right at the beginning
and then when you start getting
to more parts of your application,
things get loaded.
So, there's one other big portion of
this which is the CPU profiler which
is really cool and I'll be showing
it at the Java performance demo.
That's 5:04, that's this afternoon.
It basically lets you profile
the whole application and it's
really useful but I don't have
enough time to show it here today,
right now.
So, come to 5:04 and you can see
a little more about this.
So, let's go back to the slides.
So I just want to run over what
the strengths are of Optimizeit.
The biggest thing is that you
basically can profile your
Java code without any recompiling.
All you do is you run it
using the Optimizeit runtime,
basically.
It's really easy to configure.
It's easy to use.
I didn't show it exactly back here,
but when you first come up,
you have a whole option to
launch it all from Optimizeit.
So if you don't want to
launch it separately,
you can just launch it right there.
You can set up all your
class paths and everything.
Yeah, I'm done with that.
And then the other thing
is that it's very scalable.
Now, you may not have noticed
it during the demo,
but when I did things,
it didn't automatically load
everything that came in.
So when I asked for
object allocation graphs,
it would only load them as I needed them.
So that's really important when
you've got a giant servlet runner
that has maybe 20 threads running
with hundreds or thousands of objects.
You don't want to load all of your
instance data all right at the beginning.
You just want to look at the
portions that you're interested in.
And if you're loading it all,
it might take forever.
So that's really important.
It's a really good feature.
And the other thing I wanted
to mention about this,
just two quick things.
One is the UI for
Optimizeit is done in IFC.
I don't know if many of you know that,
but that's why it doesn't look like Aqua.
So I encourage you to encourage
the other developers at VMGear
to work on a swing version.
And also that this needs the 131 VMGear.
So it needs DP1.
You need to activate the hotspot VM,
and there's information in the
131 release on how to do that.
The other thing is they haven't
committed to a specific release date.
They've said fourth quarter.
So again, send them email,
find out when they're
going to have releases,
but it's an excellent tool.
We use it internally because
we have tons of Java code.
Our Java implementation
has lots of Java code,
and we use it all the time.
I had an engineer come into my office.
He ran through some of our graphics code
and found in 20 minutes found something
that was slowing us down like 20 times.
So it's really useful.
So that's about it.
And here's the contact info for VMGear.
Pretty much VMGear.com.
It used to be intuitive if
you used Optimizeit before.
Thank you, Scott.
Next, I want to go ahead and bring
up Blake Stone from Borland.
He's going to give us another
exciting demonstration for JBuilder.
And then you've got a
session later on tomorrow,
is it?
Today.
Actually, it's today.
Today, 5:00.
I've got so many sessions,
I can't remember.
Okay, thank you, Alan.
I'm just going to jump into
a couple of slides here,
so we'll quickly run through those.
And then we'll jump in and do
a little bit of demonstration.
I have to try to juggle some things.
So you see some cool things
during the Java address yesterday.
We'll show you a couple of
interesting things here,
but we'll save a lot of the really good
stuff for the session at 5 o'clock.
So if you want to see a lot of
the new features of JBuilder 5,
if you want to see things
specific to web development,
XML development, we'll defer those to
the 5 o'clock session,
and we'll focus on some of the
basics of Java development here.
I wanted to talk a little bit about,
specifically of course,
JBuilder 5 for Mac OS X.
The real focus of this
product is not on saleability,
marketability, buzzword compliance,
but on extreme productivity.
We are Java developers ourselves.
JBuilder is written entirely in Java,
so day by day we find out
what makes us more productive,
and we improve the tool to make you
more productive as Java developers.
So rapid coding and visual
development are a big focus,
and we'll look at that a little bit.
But integrated debugging and having just
a state-of-the-art debugger that takes
advantage of everything that we can get
from the VM is a big piece of what we do.
And of course, JDK 1.3.1 is an important
piece of the debugging story,
so that's underway.
And of course, you'll have a developer
preview of that shortly.
There's support in there for
Java beans-based development,
database development, XML, JSP.
A lot of the really big things
that our customers told us were
important to them and that we see
we need internally to manage our
own systems are things like this.
So we've got a lot of things
we've put into JBuilder.
So it really covers a very
broad spectrum of what the pure
Java developer is really interested in.
That's our primary focus is people
doing pure Java development.
The product, again,
is really written entirely in Java.
We have a tiny little stub
that gets us launched,
gets the VM kicked off.
But then the product is Java and winds up
being a wonderful torture test for Apple.
So we've been working very closely with
Apple to make sure that this enormous
application works well on their VM.
And it really is testament to the
fact that we're working with Apple.
hard work they've done that it works
because JBuilder has more classes
in it than the whole JDK does.
So we are not a small app.
But we've done some work to
specifically tailor it for Mac OS X.
So I'll showcase a little
bit of that as well.
Yes, it's the same source code
that we use elsewhere.
But we like to make sure that
it really looks nice and works
well in the Aqua look and
feel and added some features
specifically for Macintosh users.
Where should I be aiming this?
There we go.
Feeding the Macintosh spirit was a
critical sort of key theme for us.
We don't need to produce a
product that is some port,
some popular Unix thing that
you guys happen to get access
to and should be happy about it.
Instead,
we want you to really feel like this
is something that is the way Macintosh
users would have done it in the first
place because you guys have a fantastic
platform to work on and you really
deserve the best tools possible.
So, yeah, it's nice that you have
the best-selling Java OS X.
We have IDE forthcoming for Mac OS X and
we win tons of awards on that basis,
but this is not sort of a
stepchild of JBuilder on other
platforms in a lot of ways.
We showcased, of course,
at a technology preview
last year JBuilder 4.
Well, what we're showcasing
this year is JBuilder 5,
which we announced last week.
So,
this isn't a long porting process here.
This is something we're
keeping right up to date on.
We are trying our very best here
to get to the point where all
the technologies are in place to
release this and to give you the
full product that you see elsewhere,
a world-class product that really
takes advantage of the platform.
It's been interesting that
JBuilder on Mac OS X has been
very tightly connected to WWDC.
I've been happy to be here
three years in a row now.
The first year I was here,
just talking to people, seeing, you know,
is Java really important to Apple?
Is this something you'd be interested in?
And talking to a lot of you to say,
you know,
do you remember Borland from the
days when we had Macintosh products?
And, you know, would you be excited about
something like JBuilder?
And we were told resoundingly that, yes,
Java was important to
the future of Apple.
Just wait.
There will be cool things happening.
And, of course,
the Java 2 announcement was
in the works at that point.
And so we started doing
a little bit of work in,
I guess, the spring of last year to
bring a tech demo last year.
Now,
the tech demo was obviously really early.
We're running on a pre-release VM that's
running on a pre-release operating
system a good year ahead of when it
would really be ready for prime time.
So we were happy to be
able to get that level.
But here, of course,
we've given you all previews.
You have a CD in your bag that
will let you look at JBuilder.
And please, please,
please pull the updated
VM before you consider what the
performance and stability is like.
The updated VM should improve
things dramatically over the
one that shipped with Mac OS X.
Our support from
Apple has been phenomenal.
Of course, Mac OS X itself provides a
phenomenal foundation for Java 2.
Without the robust multitasking,
symmetric multiprocessing,
multithreaded environment
that Mac OS X is,
Java 2 would be enormously
difficult to put on the Mac.
But Apple's enthusiasm and partnership
has been a big piece of this.
And a really key piece
for us is JDK 1.3.1.
A lot of people have asked,
when are you going to ship?
What's holding you?
And the answer really is that JDK 1.3.0,
through no fault of Apple's,
has some pretty enormous
debugging issues.
And Apple is working hard at integrating
a lot of the fixes for those in 1.3.1.
And when that release is available,
that's when JBuilder really
starts counting down to release.
So we're looking forward
to getting there.
We're going to be able to get
there as fast as we possibly can.
But this is the missing piece.
This is also, of course,
what you will get with the update,
the developer preview release.
So with that, let's just launch in and
do a little bit of a demo.
I didn't want to spend
a lot of time on this,
but if we can bring up demo 2 here.
I did want to showcase some of
what I think is particularly
exciting about JBuilder,
not just the nifty Aqua icon.
JBuilder itself, again,
is really focused on developers.
So rather than spending time
hiding your code from you,
we really spend a lot of time focusing
on what we can do to make your coding
environment especially effective.
So if you go into an arbitrary example
and open a piece of source code,
the source code takes up
the majority of your screen,
but we spent a lot of time
finding ways to add value to the
source code editor that we have.
The source code editor provides,
of course, the usual features
you'd expect elsewhere,
the ability to indent and
unindent blocks of code,
the ability to undo an infinite
number of steps and redo an
infinite number of steps,
so just a high productivity
editing environment.
But a high productivity editing
environment with keystrokes
you're not comfortable with
wouldn't be all that useful.
I will apologize.
I've been using the keystrokes
my mind is trained to use here.
But we do provide two sets of keybindings
specific to Macintosh customers.
The Macintosh keybindings
will use sort of a classical,
more of a Project Builder,
TextEdit type set of keystrokes,
whereas for those of you who
are familiar with BBEdit,
CodeWarrior, what have you,
we've also implemented those keybindings.
And you can even go
in and customize them.
So if we've missed a keybinding,
we can go in and customize it.
And if you've missed out
on some of your favorites,
you can go in and tailor those
keybindings to your need.
So, okay,
that gets us productive right away
in doing things in the editor.
Let's see if we can get
that back to where it was.
But also we wanted to provide
really rapid browsing mechanisms.
So we provide a structural overview
of your file here that says you
have a class that has all of these
members that you can quickly get to,
but also that's dynamically updated.
So as I define a new class,
you can see that that new
class simply shows up.
As I go ahead and add members to it,
then they'll show up.
And this is tracked in
real time as you're coding.
So I'm going to set a really low delay.
We normally keep this delay
higher to avoid driving you nuts
with all the flickering going on.
But as I type,
you can see that we're actually
able to parse the source code
and keep that up to date.
So not only do we know about
the members and so forth,
but in order to figure
out what the members are,
we need to know whether your code
is actually syntactically correct.
And whenever you have something that
is an illegal piece of code that
doesn't follow the Java syntax rules,
we can show you why,
where that problem is,
and help you get to it immediately,
rather than having to go through a
compile cycle to find that kind of thing.
So that's all pretty cool,
but it helps you at sort of
the Java syntactic level,
and that's one part of the
Java programming puzzle.
The other major part of the
puzzle are the libraries.
They're huge.
There are an enormous number
of Java classes available.
There are probably more classes
being introduced every day than
you can possibly learn in that day.
So what you need are tools that
help you with these things,
and that's what we've provided here.
We've provided technology,
which we call Code Insight,
that allows me to say, you know,
if I'd like to create a new J button,
then what are the possible constructors?
Well, there are constructors that
take these various parameters.
I need to pass an icon or
an action or what have you.
And let's say I want to go ahead and
use something from the current scope.
I can also get a list of things that
are available in the current scope.
So if I want to pass a string
that I already have declared,
let's come up here and create a string
foo that contains some information.
And I don't remember the
name of my local variable.
Or I've used an extremely
long local variable name.
Then our Code Insight can assist you.
For example,
if I had this as my variable name.
Then I can just select it from a
list by typing the first couple
of characters and we get the rest.
So that technology exists
for browsing class names,
for finding out about parameter types,
for finding out about
parameter names as well.
You'll note that you get not just
that this takes a string and an icon,
but the string text and the icon icon.
Perhaps most importantly for
the Code Insight technology,
it's completely dynamic.
It's not hard coded to understand
particular JDK classes,
but it understands any class
you could possibly throw at it.
So for example,
if I come in and I say I'd
like to create a new com.apple,
it says, well here are the sub
packages in com.apple.
There's no specific code for this at all.
I just know that there's some classes
out there and I can browse them.
And I go and look for a completely
unprepared here class and we'll
see what constructors are there.
And it turns out it's
actually an interface.
So there are no constructors.
constructors.
But that's interesting in itself.
If it's an interface,
does it have any interesting
constants or static members?
Sure.
So we can browse and discover
all this stuff on the fly.
We can discover it so completely
on the fly that if I were to go
ahead and declare right now my class
foo with a public void bar method,
and to come down here and create a
new foo and go to invoke methods,
look who shows up.
So we're parsing and analyzing all
of your code on the fly all the
time and that's a really key piece.
The one other thing that I wanted
to demonstrate really briefly,
because I'm assuming I'm eating
into other people's time if
I don't stop this quickly,
is the visual design aspect.
Because if you're doing
raw coding for Swing,
it can take a long time to figure
out how to get the effect you want.
But if you can just drag
and drop components,
you can get there really rapidly.
So we provide a way of visually
designing something that I can
say I'd like a button here,
I'd like a text field here,
I would like a scrolling region with,
say, a tree in it here.
And what we do behind the scenes is write
the source code that you would have had
to write in order to accomplish that.
So you see here in JBInit,
we have all the constructors
and things that do set text.
Here we go, for example, on the button,
JButton1.
But what's really unique to JBuilder's
approach is what we call two-way tools.
We aren't just generating code for you.
The code is the complete repository
of our knowledge about the design.
So if I go and actually change the
code or do something really torturous,
like actually put an expression
in there and flip back to design,
we'll go and actually have a
look at your code and reproduce
to reproduce what you've done.
So I hope that's enough
to get you intrigued.
We'll be in the Civic at 5 o'clock,
and I certainly welcome all of you there.
We'll hopefully have time
to answer questions there,
which we probably won't
run into at this session.
So thank you very much, Alan,
and we'll see you later.
Okay, next we want to bring up Zero-G.
We've got Eric and Michael.
And you've got the
clicker and you're set.
Excellent.
Morning, everybody.
My name is Michael Acosta,
and I'm the lead architect
for InstallAnywhere.
I'm here with Eric Shapiro,
who is our founder of Zero-G.
And we're really excited to be here, one,
because we finally got our demo
working not 15 minutes ago,
but also because you've seen a lot
of products here that are helping you
to develop your Java applications.
Once you're done developing
your Java applications,
you're going to need to ship them.
And you're going to need
to keep them updated,
maintained, configured on the machines.
That's what Zero-G provides.
And Eric's got some slides.
He's going to show you.
He's going to get the slides up.
Can we get the slides back up here?
Actually, I think your mic might
not be working there.
So OK.
So what we're going to do here-- you're
just going to have to talk really loud,
so I'm sure you can do that.
What we're going to do here
is we're going to show you
a bunch of different things.
We've been in doing Java development
now for about five years.
We've been partners with
Apple during that entire time,
focusing in on after you have
completed your applications,
after you've written them using
any of the great tools out there.
Some of the stuff that we've just seen,
some of the stuff we're going to see.
What do you do next?
You want to get it out to your users.
You need to create a
great installer for that.
And we've got two products,
one that some of you
may have seen before,
which is Install Anywhere,
another product called Power Update,
which we're introducing here
and showing this on Mac OS X.
We've been supporting Mac OS 9 and other
platforms for the last several years.
So, the first thing I want to do is talk
a little bit about InstallAnywhere.
InstallAnywhere allows you
to create a single installer.
An installer that's entirely Java based
and allows you to run that installation,
installing your application
on any Java platform.
We've supported the Mac OS for a while,
we support Windows, Linux, Solaris, HPUX,
AIX, all across the board.
Pretty much anything you want
to do with a single installer
that gives you the same look and
feel across all the platforms.
Now I say look and feel,
and really what I'm saying here is feel,
because we're going to show you in just
a minute here is how on the Macintosh
it's incredibly important for us to
have the look that people expect,
the Aqua looks.
We're going to show you that.
In addition to that is a technology
that's part of InstallAnywhere
called LaunchAnywhere.
And as many of you know,
it's incredibly difficult to
convince your users how to
run your Java applications.
You may have developed on a Macintosh,
you don't have a command line
if you're using Mac OS 9,
you do have a command line
when you're using Mac OS X,
but your Windows users have command
lines and batch files and your
Solaris users have those as well.
And so what are they going to do?
Well, our technology,
which is called LaunchAnywhere,
allows you to go ahead and create
a single launcher technology that
allows your users to double click the
application just by clicking on an icon.
Now the other thing that we're
going to be talking about here is...
A little bit about the
architecture here is about what
you can do with InstallAnywhere.
InstallAnywhere can build you an
installer which can run from a CD-ROM or
you can put it onto a deployment server,
onto a web server,
and you can do web installs.
We're going to show you a
little bit about that today.
It allows you to do installations
right from the web browser.
We don't have that working
today with Mac OS X,
but it will as soon as we get the
new release that Blake was talking
about just a little while ago as well,
and so everybody will
get that support as well.
Power Update is a new thing that a
lot of people out there have said,
okay, installation's great,
but I've got to keep my software updated.
How do I do that?
Well, Apple's got a great
technology software update,
but it's not available to third parties.
And what Power Update does for
you is it gives you the ability
to add software updating,
live updating to your applications.
Not just Java applications,
any kind of application at all.
In fact,
the focus of InstallAnywhere with our new
release that's coming out is that you can
install native applications on Mac OS X,
and you can add Power Update to it,
and you can get the live updating
functionality that you would expect to
get from software update as an example.
The Power Update architecture is a
little bit more intense compared to
InstallAnywhere in the sense that
it does require a server component,
Power Update Server,
which is where you get
your software updates from.
And there's a management
aspect to that as well,
so you can say,
"Here's the versions that I've got,
here's the versions that
I want my users to have,
etc." Now,
a real challenge for us has been,
as we've been focusing on the great look
and feel and trying to make sure that all
this stuff looks great on the Macintosh,
well,
one of the things that we wanted to do,
very important for us,
is to show how great the Macintosh
platform is as a Java server platform.
And, in fact, we'll be running the
Power Update Server on our
Mac OS X machines up here,
and that's a J2EE application
that's got the complete software
stack running a Java web server,
running a database,
running the JSPs and servlets
and all the connections and the
reporting modules and all that,
and we're running that up here as well.
and enough of me talking,
let's go ahead into a demo.
And what we're going to do here is
we're going to do a side-by-side
demo because this is really a
combination of both a developer
tool and an end-user experience.
And again,
it's really important for us to be
having that end-user experience.
So what we have here that you'll see
on the screen is two different things.
On your left-hand side is
the end-user experience.
This is what your customers will see.
On the right-hand side is the
experience of what you as the
software developer will see.
And we're going to tag
team our demos here.
And I'm going to let Michael go
ahead and take over first.
If you could look over there
while I log us into the
developer system on this side.
Can you guys hear me?
Yeah.
Okay, good.
Okay, what we have right here
is an Internet Explorer,
a web page.
And this web page,
when you actually build your
installers for the various platforms,
is automatically generated.
And right where you see this right here,
this is where the applet
would typically be.
What the applet allows you
to do is actually start the
installation from the web.
What that does is it will download it,
it will fire it right off,
so all they have to do is click
on the button and get ready to go.
Alternatively, we list all the different
platforms that you've built for,
and they can just download it directly.
Say they want to get something
that's for another platform,
and then just put it on a central
server so they can go ahead and
distribute it among the corporation,
that's fine as well.
But I've already downloaded one,
got one ready to go,
so I'm just going to go
ahead and start that for you.
Why don't we go ahead and quit those
guys so that we don't get confused with
the installer that runs in the web page.
Okay.
[Transcript missing]
Now, what Michael just did there is
the full installation talking
about what we have installed,
but it's important how you
represent what that is.
And so, a lot of us in the Macintosh like
to see a representation of your
files and what they're going to be.
So again, over here what we see
is on our Install tab,
we have a representation of
what your files will look
like on the end user system.
This is really important
because you don't know what
that end user is going to have.
You don't know what their
directory structure is like,
you don't know where
their home folders are,
you don't know if they're
on a Solaris machine,
a Windows machine,
or of course a Macintosh.
And so what you want to do is
you want to set up your installer
in a way where you're referring
to things in a magical way,
in a way where it determines what
those folders are at runtime,
at install time.
We happen to call those
things magic folders.
So, as you can see here,
we have a bunch of files
that we're installing.
If you choose to take a file
or a folder and you want to put
it into a different location,
you have this selection of all these
different magic folders available to you,
including ones for the Macintosh,
including ones specifically for
other platforms like Unix platforms,
or as you can see here,
we have some of the Windows platform
locations on there as well.
Or if you choose those here at the top,
these are ones that are
platform independent.
So if you choose the desktop location,
it will figure that out for
whatever platform you're on.
Mac OS Classic, Mac OS X, Windows,
what have you.
And if we talk about things like
shortcuts or program folders,
what those are is we call them aliases,
Unix people call them symbolic links,
but basically what you
can do is you can specify,
you can say,
"I want to install my shortcuts into
wherever the default location is for
that operating system." So when I go
ahead over here to my platforms tab,
I can see that, for instance here,
for Windows,
we have the default location for
shortcuts go into the programs menu.
But on Mac OS, the default alias location
is on the desktop.
Now you can choose this
independently for each platform.
One additional thing,
before we go back to Michael here,
is the idea that you do
sometimes have files,
as we all know,
even Java applications occasionally have
something that you might need to add in,
which is platform specific.
Maybe it's a runtime library,
or it's some kind of a launcher or
something like we talked about before.
Well, I can take any file here,
and I can add a rule
to it by simply saying,
clicking on the rules tab here,
saying check platform.
Now, if I only want that application
to install on Mac OS and Mac OS X,
I do that, and now this file here will
only install on those platforms,
allowing you to build, again,
one single installer,
which will run on all platforms
for all languages around the world.
So let's go ahead, I'm going to show you
one more thing over here.
Leave it right here,
because I actually want
to point out one thing.
The interesting thing about
developing with InstallAnywhere,
what makes it so easy,
is when you do add your files in,
it's basically what you
see is what you get.
And that's why I've switched
over here to the list view.
If you look at the two views,
you'll see that,
although some of the things might be
out of order because of the ordering,
the sorting,
what you see is what you get.
They're basically the exact same.
If you drop down com,
you'll see they look
exactly the same in between.
And that's really important so that
you know that it's going to be laid out
in the designer is exactly what you're
going to get on the destination system.
Great.
Now, we also talked about the object.
So, the idea that you can build this
single installer for all platforms.
And, as we know,
the premier platform out there
has Java included with it,
but not all platforms out there are as...
[Transcript missing]
The next section here is where can
I go and get those updates from.
This one here says where am I going
to go and deliver those updates to
the end user and is that version live.
Now I've already made this version live
here so let's go back to our overview
and we'll see that that version is live,
version 10, and user,
could you please go check for updates.
So it's a very clean simple interface.
There's actually several different
interfaces that you can do.
You can actually hook up
Power Update directly into your
application and run it silently
in the background every time you
launch your application for instance
or as we do in InstallAnywhere
you can add a check for updates,
pull down menu.
So what I'm going to do is I'm going
to go ahead and connect to the server.
It's giving me feedback
as to what's going on.
Oh, sorry.
And there is a new version of
Office Suite available with Aqua.
Excellent.
Click Next.
and it's been successfully updated.
So if I go back and
I launch Office Suite,
let's see if this has worked.
Excellent.
From Mac OS X.
And lo and behold,
we've given you a little surprise.
We also updated your toolbar
there with the new Aqua look
and feel for Office Suite.
For those of you wondering,
Office Suite is just a demo application.
It actually is not a real product.
But if you try InstallAnywhere,
it does come with it,
so you can play around with doing that.
Okay, so that's our demo.
I did want to leave you with one thing,
a final thought.
I'm actually not going to be able
to do it because it's licensed.
Oh well,
you won't be able to show the Easter egg
that's built into InstallAnywhere.
I have a very interesting Easter egg
that I had written especially for this.
But if you stop by our booth,
we'll be giving demos.
We're here until the
end of the day today.
And in addition, you can get more
information on our website,
www.zerog.com.
Thanks a lot, everybody.
I'm going to go ahead and invite
MetroWorks up here and give you a
demo of the latest CodeWarrior tools.
I'm Ravi Kurupati and Serge Beauchamp.
We are the Java team in MetroWorks.
As everybody knows, 95% of the people on
Macintosh are CodeWarriors,
and we would like to actually
have the Java supporting
CodeWarrior as much as we can.
But in the previous release of Java,
when we released it, we had public beta,
and then we made sure that
our tools work on public beta.
But the previous version of Java 6.0,
all the support is not there on OS X.
So what we have here in
Early Access is all the
Java support functionality on OS X.
So all the Java RAD stuff,
we got it working on X,
and the Java debugger
performance is much improved now.
So it's far better than
what we had in OS 9.
So there are a lot of
improvements in the Early Access,
and Serge will go through
the technical details,
and he will go through a quick demo,
so as we have less time.
Okay.
Hello, my name is Serge Beauchamp.
I'm working for Metroix
as a software engineer.
I've been working on the RAD tools
and the IDE over the past few months.
I'm going to show you the new
RAD tools that we have running on OS X.
I'm going to go quite quick on the slides
because we don't have much time left.
But basically,
the new RAD tools are a very big
improvement over the tools that
we had on OS 9.2 and on OS X.
So you can expect much better
debugging time and full Java 2 support.
We have a full suite of developing tools,
including a text editor, debugger,
compilers, file compare tools,
a class browser that I'm
going to show you right now.
Okay.
So this demo,
you're going to have to use the Java DP1
update for being able to run it.
And unfortunately,
you're going to have to grab a patch,
a Java patch from the Metroix
website with the LXS CD that
you just got in the bag.
Because we've been doing a few
last minute fixes to make this run.
Okay,
so I'm going to show you a little demo.
So this is the demo.
Althorad Demo.
So we've been adjusting for Aqua all
the MetaWorks IDE and how many
of you guys have been using the
MetaWorks tools for developing before?
Okay, so yeah, I think most of you guys
already know how it works.
So I have this layout editor here,
and what I did for this little
demo is I built a jar file
with the Java 2D demo from Sun.
So I just built a jar file and
I included the jar file and
the component catalog here.
So when I click on it,
it lists all the files,
all the classes that I can
include in the layout editor.
So...
So for example, if I drag any of them,
it may do something useful and
may do something not as useful,
depending on what the class really does.
So this is run at runtime,
so the command has the opportunity
to do whatever it wants.
So what I'm going to do for this demo,
I'm going to use a class
that I already know,
which is called Rotated3D.
Edited, right here.
I'm going to set the name of it to,
for example, Jimbo.
I'm going to drag a button
here and the label of it,
I'm going to put start and
Another button which is going to be stop.
And I'm going to add two lines of
code for making this demo work.
In the action perform of this component,
I will say Jimbo start.
And this guy, I'm going to do Jimbo stop.
So that's pretty much all of it.
And I'm going to run it.
So the CodeWarriors generate
automatically the jar file,
and it creates automatically
the MRJ App Builder
application in the Finder.
So it can be double
clicked automatically.
[Transcript missing]
So the Java application starts.
And we are using the terminal application
for running the Java application.
So if you have a console
application and you want to put
some user input from the console,
you actually do it from
the actual terminal.
So you have the exact feedback that
you would run it through the terminal.
So I can step here.
And as you can see,
this kind of performance was
just a dream on the OS 9 and
came just for free on the OS 10.
There's the little demo.
So I can put start, and stop, and start.
There it is.
So inside our tools,
we have the class browser,
which is very useful,
especially for Java code.
So you can inspect all your classes
and all the methods there is in it.
So you can, for example,
edit just a simple method.
You don't have to view all your
source file at the same time.
You can just inspect
a small portion of it.
And there's a little wizard
that you can use to add a new
method or add a class to it.
So it's all done automatically and
all generated source code for it.
There's also all the usual
Code Warrior tools that you can
find in it and you can use for Java.
There's the File Compare tools
that is very useful.
And actually,
some of our customers are using--I've
been told are using-- our Java tools only
for the File Compare functionality of it.
So I can show you a
little bit what it does.
Just puts an evil modification
in it so it can break.
And...
I can compare directories
or I can compare files and
it shows the modification.
and I can merge them or not like that.
So it's very convenient.
Also,
you can build directly GNI application
within CodeWarrio if you have the
SQL tools with the same environment.
You have your design application here
that you can inspect all the classes.
And basically,
we have 15 seconds left and
that was our demo for today.
We will have a presentation
at the Civic Center,
so if you can come by and see
our presentation with our CEO,
that will give you more
information about rituals.
Thank you.